well howdy there internet people it's
beau again
so let me start off by saying that if
you hear pinging or a banging noise
during this video that's water dripping
out of the trees over the shop
onto the tin roof i normally don't
record
when this is happening but today it
seems kind of fitting
i also want to point out that despite
the fact that what i'm about to say is
going to sound like something out of a
dystopian novel this is not a satire
video
today we're going to talk about futures
you know like corn futures wheat futures
oil futures a new kind of futures
water futures because that's a thing now
water futures if you don't know what
futures are
super basic way of looking at it it's
contract
that allows
a large consumer of something to lock in
a price
of a commodity and the seller to lock in
a price of a commodity
also allows people to position
themselves
based on whether they think that price
is going to go up or down in the future
opens the door for speculation
now when people talk about this they're
going to point out the good things and
there are some
it will help large farmers
kind of uh
guess what their water costs are going
to be in the future
it'll be a good tool for discovering
how much you should pay or how much you
should sell
for
there's going to be a lot of
talk about this and trying to frame it
in a way that is really
positive but at the end of the day one
of the really important things to
realize here
is that price fluctuations
are what make a market like this
and those fluctuations are caused by
supply
and demand this is a
really good indication that some pretty
smart people
see large fluctuations
in the supply and demand of water
it's probably worth noting this little
instrument
this little tool is going to be based on
the nasdaq val
as california water index the symbol is
nqh2o if you want to look into it
came on the scene around 2018 at about
370.
i want to say now it's hanging out
around 500.
pretty uh pretty significant increase
right now 2 billion people
in the world face water scarcity water
insecurity issues
by a lot of estimates two-thirds of the
world's population
will face water shortages by 2025
that is not some distant year that is
right around the corner
because while the world is covered in
water only three to four percent of it
is fresh
and a whole lot of that is really hard
to get to
so this is something that's on the
horizon
and there are a whole bunch of ways to
look at this information
you can look at it in the sense of well
i mean yeah
something we need to get prepared for we
need to have a good gauge
you can look at it in the sense of the
fact that two-thirds of the world's
population
is going to face water shortages and
in a truly american spirit
somebody found a way to profit on it um
but i think most relevant to the people
watching this
is that this is a really good tool you
want to find the silver lining
to the fact that we now live in the
setting to some movie or book that we do
not want to be in
this is a good tool because there are a
whole lot of people out there
that do not believe this issue is real
there is a whole futures market
dedicated to
water now that's the thing
it exists
for those people who talk to others
about climate change environmental
degradation
this should probably come up because
this is one of those things that you can
point to it is concrete
these are titans of industry here
they're saying we need to start paying
attention to this
if they're doing it that may sway
people who don't want to take this
seriously
so yeah there's uh some pretty unnerving
elements to this
but it's also handing us a tool that we
can use to show people
no the impacts of this are real and they
are going to affect
us we should probably engage in some
changes
before these numbers get too high for
the average person
anyway it's just a thought y'all have a
good day